JAKE ARCHIBALD: Another
day, another journey.
PAUL LEWIS: I know
we did, right?
How is your aim?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, not great
in the middle of the night,
but I sometimes just sit down.
PAUL LEWIS: No, actually, I
mean your snooker, your pool,
or in this case, your billiards.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Ooh.
We're going to a billiard hall?
PAUL LEWIS: That we are, sir.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
So I made a thing.
PAUL LEWIS: That's
unusual for you.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I know.
I'm quite proud of myself.
PAUL LEWIS: You've done like two
in as many months or something?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah,
it's a new thing.
It's really--
PAUL LEWIS: What is it?
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
It's a little wiki--
PAUL LEWIS: Is it a web app?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yes,
it is a web app.
PAUL LEWIS: Is it a website?
What's the difference, Jake?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Shut up.
PAUL LEWIS: [LAUGHING]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We're not doing
web apps versus web sites.
I would say it's an app.
PAUL LEWIS: Oh dear,
an app with content?
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
I flipped a coin.
It's an app.
No, it's not.
It's a site.
It's is a Wikipedia
article viewer,
which I realize is what
Wikipedia does already,
but this was more of an exercise
in looking at performance,
like page load time performance.
PAUL LEWIS: But you think you
can beat Wikipedia at a service
side render, do you?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I did.
PAUL LEWIS: You did!
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well,
so this is the thing.
So I was posting on GitHub, so I
was doing a client side render.
PAUL LEWIS: [GASPING]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I know!
PAUL LEWIS: After
all you've said!
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It seemed like a
nice simple way to get into it.
So I was serving just
JavaScript down the wire,
then JavaScript's going
and getting the content
and putting it on the page.
And I was seeing, looking
at my official figures,
2.6 seconds for the first
render, and 4.7 seconds
for content, which
even at that point
was faster than Wikipedia's
actual official site.
But I knew it could
be better than that.
PAUL LEWIS: OK.
What was in that first render?
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
First render was just
like the top toolbar that said
like Wikipedia and a spin.
PAUL LEWIS: OK, but from
a user point of view,
they've got something.
They know they're on the way.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Yeah, and then if it
was 4.7 seconds until the actual
Wikipedia article came down.
PAUL LEWIS: So you've actually
got here a good couple
of seconds there where
you're spinning up,
where your app doesn't seem
to be-- like it's idle,
essentially?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, I know
you're pulling your sad face,
but don't worry.
That's not the end of the story.
PAUL LEWIS: I'm puling
a stalling face.
I'm mulling over.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: OK, so while
you're pulling a mulling face,
I can tell you what
I did to fix it.
There's a happy--
PAUL LEWIS: What
about my other faces?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Are you OK?
Are you having a stroke?
PAUL LEWIS: [LAUGHING]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So yeah, I
made the JavaScript async,
and put some markup on the
page for that first render.
And I inlined the CSS
for that first render.
PAUL LEWIS: Good,
normal, all normal.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Well, you say normal.
When I first heard that rule as
like, oh take some of your CSS
out and put it in the
head, I was like, oh,
that's it's a big ask
for developers, really.
PAUL LEWIS: Whoa, big what?
You said big ask again!
You know, you keep saying--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's a big ask.
PAUL LEWIS: It's a request, pal.
That's what it is.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I know.
Oh my god, I hate
it when people--
PAUL LEWIS: You've
become that person.
You've become that person.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: --When
people say that.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah.
Next you'll be asking to reason
about things, or using modulo.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
To reason about, I
hate that one, because it is
just developers not wanting
to say they don't understand.
PAUL LEWIS: I actually
do like modulo.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
I do agree that it's
too hard to async load CSS.
This is something that we have
a problem with, on the platform,
right?
PAUL LEWIS: Yes, I
actually tried it.
It's rubbish.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: We got loadCSS
from the Filament Group,
but it's more script
than you should need.
It should just be async
on the link element.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah, it
should be declarative.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But
moreover, I think
what Firefox and IE do at the
moment is actually really good.
It's a bit of nonstandard
behavior, but I really like it.
Put the link element
on the page in the body
just before the
[? content net ?] needs it,
and it will block the
rendering-- wait for it.
It will block the rendering
of the subsequent content
until that CSS loads.
It's not blocking
all page rendering.
PAUL LEWIS: OK, OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It's
just the elements
after don't go into
the render tree.
PAUL LEWIS: True, fair enough.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
We should do that.
We should take that one, and we
should also have async as well.
PAUL LEWIS: OK, so right.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Yeah, where am I?
PAUL LEWIS: We had a
parallelizable thing, last
I understood, of where you had
the JavaScript that went off
to get the Wikipedia page, and
I was saying that's bonkers.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And so yes, I
came to the same conclusion.
I thought that this
needs server rendering.
PAUL LEWIS: Wise man!
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, thank you.
Let's do a cheers.
Cheers to server rendering.
PAUL LEWIS: Cheers to
server side rendering.
Well, this is the nerdiest
cheer that ever went up.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So I was
looking at my calculations,
once I introduced server
rendering, things got slower.
PAUL LEWIS: Right.
That's a bit annoying.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: My
content render actually
sort of came down a
little bit, not much,
but my first render skyrocketed.
PAUL LEWIS: Why?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It was slower
because connection goes off
to my server.
My server goes up to
Wikipedia, gets the data,
comes back, [? destructs ?]
the page, sends it on.
You're looking at white screen
for longer now, because you've
got the bottleneck of
your third-party service.
By taking that, just the
JavaScript, CSS, the basic page
shell-- down to 0.1
seconds, like as good
as instant for
that first render,
because it's all offline.
But here's an
interesting thing that
happened, is my content render
went-- because I'm now back
to doing client side rendering--
content render's gone up again,
because even though it's
coming from the cache,
there's two problems.
There's one that the
request to Wikipedia
is a little bit
delayed, because it has
to parse the JavaScript to--
PAUL LEWIS: To Wiki pedia.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: To Wikipedia.
PAUL LEWIS: It's delayed.
I like that.
It's almost like a--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I didn't
do that on purpose.
PAUL LEWIS: Really?
But yeah, so I cut
that delay by-- as soon
as the request went to
the service worker--
had the service worker go off
and fetch stuff from Wikipedia.
PAUL LEWIS: OK, so
how do you then--
because you still want to send
your response back with the app
shell stuff--
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Yeah, what you're
talking about there
is chunked in coding.
So this is the art
of being able just
to quickly send data back,
without knowing your whole page
content.
So I was able to send back the
header and the first render
stuff, essentially, so
now the browser knows
what the extra CSS
and JavaScript needs.
Meanwhile, or at the first
possible opportunity,
my server's going
off to Wikipedia
and it's gathering that.
And then as it arrives, it
just streams it through,
and that slashed
the rendering time.
We got down to-- well, so
we're at 1.4 seconds for first
render, and while I get
the official figures up--
PAUL LEWIS: [DRUM ROLL NOISE]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It went down
to 2.4 seconds for the content,
and that's a two second saving,
compared to JavaScript on 3G.
PAUL LEWIS: Wow, that's good.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah,
it's pretty huge.
PAUL LEWIS: You can't really get
any better than that, can you?
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Oh, you can, sir,
by using a little technology you
might not have heard of before.
PAUL LEWIS: [TRUMPET NOISE]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Service worker!
PAUL LEWIS: Yay!
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But yeah, as
soon as you set the content--
the page shell
offline, that's it.
You can get to that first
rendering in 0.1 seconds,
the measurement came out.
But it's instant really.
But it took 9K of the
content down the wire,
and once I had that,
wrote it to the page,
and then wrote again
once I had to rest.
And it was a total
hack to do that.
And this is why my next wish
for the internet-- for the web
standard is streams,
because I want
to be able to take some content
that we're downloading, pipe
into an element, and it appears.
And I think once we have
that, that kind of rendering
as it goes along,
I think that's when
we can see client side
rendering apps become
competitive with
server end apps.
PAUL LEWIS: We'll drink to that.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Cheers.
[MUSIC PLAYING]